CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to HQE Workbench

Thank you for your interest in contributing! We are building the future of autonomous engineering tools, and we'd love your help.

## Development Setup

1. **Fork & Clone**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/hqe-workbench.git
    cd hqe-workbench
    ```

2. **Bootstrap**:

    ```bash
    ./scripts/bootstrap_macos.sh
    ```

3. **Branching**:
    - Use `feat/` for new features.
    - Use `fix/` for bug fixes.
    - Use `docs/` for documentation updates.

## Pull Request Process

1. **Ensure Quality**: Run the full preflight check before pushing.

    ```bash
    npm run preflight
    ```

    This runs:
    - Rust tests & formatting (`cargo test`, `cargo fmt`)
    - TypeScript linting & testing (`npm run lint`, `npm test`)
    - Security audits (`cargo audit`)

2. **Commit Messages**: We follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/):
    - `feat(core): add new scanner`
    - `fix(ui): resolve button alignment`
    - `docs: update readme`

3. **Open PR**:
    - Target the `main` branch.
    - Fill out the PR template completely.
    - Link related issues (e.g., "Fixes #123").

## Style Guide

### Rust

- **Errors**: Use `thiserror` for libraries, `anyhow` for CLI/binaries.
- **Async**: Prefer `tokio` for async runtime.
- **Docs**: All public functions must have doc comments (`///`).

### TypeScript / React

- **Functional Components**: Use `React.FC` or simple functions.
- **State**: Use `zustand` for global state.
- **Styling**: Use Tailwind CSS (via `index.css`).
- **No `any`**: TypeScript strict mode is enabled.

## Community & Support

- **Issues**: Report bugs/features on GitHub.
- **Discussions**: Join our GitHub Discussions for deeper topics.

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's MIT License.

Commit message:

Add docs/templates, CI tests, and core OpenAI fixes
Large repo-wide sweep: add standard community & governance docs and templates (CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, SECURITY.md, PRIVACY.md, SUPPORT.md, CREDITS.md, .github issue/PR templates), update README/ABOUT/LEGAL/CONTRIBUTING, and add docs (API, DEVELOPMENT, PROMPTS_AUDIT). Improve CI/security workflows (.github/workflows): install rustfmt/clippy, add Python setup for protocol validation, add JS unit test job, and use an installer for cargo-audit. Update Cargo.toml repository URL and other project metadata.

Core code & behavior fixes: implement persistence (crates/hqe-core/src/persistence.rs), fixes to hqe-openai (expanded ChatRequest fields, ResponseFormat::JsonSchema support, MessageContent handling, provider discovery improvements to allow LAN HTTP and preserve model traits, fallback from JSON response mode), CLI export implementation, prompt loader and prompt fixes (TOML repairs, prompt audit), and multiple UI/test updates (WorkBench settings, model discovery, Thinktank behavior, and corresponding tests). These changes address provider compatibility, privacy/local-first guarantees, and several P1/P2 reliability and UX issues found during the sweep.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to HQE Workbench

Thank you for your interest in contributing! We are building the future of autonomous engineering tools, and we'd love your help.

## Development Setup

1. **Fork & Clone**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/AbstergoSweden/HQE-Workbench.git
    cd HQE-Workbench
    ```

    If you are contributing from a fork, replace the clone URL with your fork URL.

2. **Bootstrap**:

    ```bash
    ./scripts/bootstrap_macos.sh
    ```

3. **Branching**:
    - Use `feat/` for new features.
    - Use `fix/` for bug fixes.
    - Use `docs/` for documentation updates.

## Pull Request Process

1. **Ensure Quality**: Run the full preflight check before pushing.

    ```bash
    npm run preflight
    ```

    This runs:
    - Rust tests & formatting (`cargo test`, `cargo fmt`)
    - TypeScript linting & testing (`npm run lint`, `npm test`)

    Optional (recommended) security audit:
    - `cargo audit`

2. **Commit Messages**: We follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/):
    - `feat(core): add new scanner`
    - `fix(ui): resolve button alignment`
    - `docs: update readme`

3. **Open PR**:
    - Target the `main` branch.
    - Fill out the PR template completely.
    - Link related issues (e.g., "Fixes #123").

## Style Guide

### Rust

- **Errors**: Use `thiserror` for libraries, `anyhow` for CLI/binaries.
- **Async**: Prefer `tokio` for async runtime.
- **Docs**: All public functions must have doc comments (`///`).

### TypeScript / React

- **Functional Components**: Use `React.FC` or simple functions.
- **State**: Use `zustand` for global state.
- **Styling**: Use Tailwind CSS (via `index.css`).
- **No `any`**: TypeScript strict mode is enabled.

## Community & Support

- **Issues**: Report bugs/features on GitHub.
- **Discussions**: Join our GitHub Discussions for deeper topics.

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's MIT License.
